Programming Contructs 
  S -> Sequence - Sequence determine the order in which the intruction occurs and take place.
  S -> Selecetion - Selection determines the path to take when executing the program. For suppose it decide whether the condition is truw or not or following or not. 
  I -> Iteration - Iteration is reffered as looping it indicate when should a progra reapeat itself unless it mets the requirements.
       { For loop - in for loop the programs run in a loop for a given time.}
       *[Variable- a memory allocated in the computer to store the values]

       2 parts of iteration 
       Definite - For loop come in definite where the time is given for loop
       Indefinite - while and Repeat until comes in indefinite loop where time is not given and loop will take process until given condition met
       		Type:-
       		REPEAT UNTIL is a form of indefinite iteration that tests the condition at the end of the loop. WHILE ENDWHILE tests the condition at the start of the iteration.
       		WHILE ENDWHILE is a form of indefinite iteration that tests the condition at the start of the loop. REPEAT UNTIL tests the condition at the end of the loop.

Which of the following allows a programmer to implement selection?
IF THEN ELSE allows a programmer to implement selection.

Which of the following will always run the code within it at least once?
If the condition is met before the code within a WHILE ENDWHILE loop is run, then the code will not be executed at all. The code inside a REPEAT UNTIL loop will be run at least once, even if the condition has been met.








Algorithms
	
	Algorithm is a set of intructions described how to solve a problem.
		Pseudo code - pseudo code is a way to write a code in plain simple english text.
		moost process fell in three main category.
			1. input
			2. process
			3. output  


			*[Array- set of values of same type stored in a sequence in a computer program also know as list.]
			*[assignment - seeting value of a variable.]
			*[variable- variables are containers for storing data value.]
		Flow Chart - Flow chart is a diagram that shows overview of an algorithm.

		Decomposition - Decomposition is breaking down a problem in smaller manageable problems.  

		Abstraction - Removing un-nessasary details from the problems to focus on the details.

		*[Dry run algo means to assign a value to a variable]

	Efficiency of an algorithm is important.

		Sorting algorithm are 
			[Merge sort - merge sort algorithm repeadly divides a list in half until each has only one item left. The individual list than merged.]
			[Bubble sort - sorting algorithm which countinuosly passes in the list to be sorted, comapring and swapping item in a wrong order.]


Common Algorithm 

	Two algrothm often used in search and sort 
		search allow data to be examine and specific item to be retreived
		sort allow data to be set in order.

	Method of searching include:-
	Binary search - 
	Linear search - 
	Method of sorting include:- 
	Bubble sort -
	Merge sort - 



Linear Search 
	It is an example of searching algorithm. This simple algorithm used to find the value in a list.

	The algorithm runs as follows:-
		1. identify search items.
		2. look at the first item in the list.
		3. Compare the item in the search.
		4. repeat step tp step untill it reaches the desired items.

Binary Search 
	It is an example of searching algo. It is more complex search algo and require all item to be in a order.
	With each loop to be run half of the data is been removed from the search.
	* To do this it require index of the items. Index means the position in the item.

	To determoine next iterm to be checked the mid point need to be identified. This is done by adding the lowest index to the highest index andthen dividing by two. 

	The algorithm runs as follows:-
	1. start with setting the counter in the list.

































variable :- Used to store data in python\

variable is made with = 
foe ex name = "devyanshu"
        |
        This is variable
        